JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
MAN (through translator): You
change the nominee.
You do not change the rules.
SEN.
JOHN CORNYN (R), Texas: If they
won't confirm
Judge Gorsuch, they will never
confirm to
confirm any nominee of this
president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In a historic
move, Senate
Republicans invoke the so-called
nuclear option
to clear the way for President
Trump's Supreme
Court nominee.
Then: As the president hosts
China's leader
in Florida at his Mar-a-Lago
resort, a look
at the cost of protecting the
commander in
chief, his family members and
their residences.
And with Republicans aiming to
loosen or undo
strict Obama-era banking
regulations, we sit
down with an outgoing Federal
Reserve Board
governor to talk about what he
thinks should
be changed.
DANIEL TARULLO, Federal Reserve
Governor:
I don't really expect that
there's going to
be a dismantling of some of the
major accomplishments
that we have had.
And I certainly hope not.
And I don't think it would be
something the
American people would want to
see, Democrats
or Republicans.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: There is growing
talk tonight
of possible U.S. military action
against the
government of Syria.
That comes as new evidence has
emerged that
an attack that killed more than
80 people
this week involved chemical
weapons.
William Brangham has our report.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The images
themselves left
little doubt that this was a
chemical weapons
attack.
Now Turkey says postmortems on
three victims
who were brought across the
border confirm
it.
BEKIR BOZDAG, Turkish Justice
Minister (through
translator): With this
scientific examination,
it has been determined that
Syria's president,
Bashar al-Assad, has used a
chemical weapon.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But, in
Damascus, Syria's
foreign minister again denied
responsibility.
Instead, he charged that
militants linked
to al-Qaida had the toxic agents
in a warehouse,
which was then hit by a
government airstrike.
WALID MOALLEM, Syrian Foreign
Minister (through
translator): I confirm to you
once again that
the Syrian Arab army has not and
will not
use this type of weapon against
our people
and our children, and not even
against the
terrorists.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Russia has
been Syria's
main ally, and, today President
Vladimir Putin
warned against assigning blame
until there's
a -- quote -- "thorough and
unbiased investigation."
Meanwhile, Putin's spokesman
seemed to suggest
that Moscow's backing for
Syria's Assad may
not be permanent.
DMITRY PESKOV, Spokesman for
Vladimir Putin:
I don't think it's correct to
say about unconditional
support.
Unconditional support is not
possible in the
current world.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Earlier this
week, the White
House said removing Assad was no
longer an
option.
But, today, Secretary of State
Tillerson said
there is no role for Assad in
governing Syria,
and Russia should reconsider its
support of
him.
And asked if the U.S. was
organizing a coalition
to remove the Syrian leader,
Tillerson said:
REX TILLERSON, U.S. Secretary of
State: Those
steps are under way.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And, on Air
Force One today,
President Trump said of Assad:
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
And he's there, and I guess he's
running things,
so I guess something should
happen.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Officials say
Defense Secretary
James Mattis may discuss
military options
with the president in Florida.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The day's other
major story
came in the United States
Senate, where the
stage is now set to confirm
Judge Neil Gorsuch
to the Supreme Court.
Republicans swept aside the main
obstacle,
as partisan tensions peaked.
Lisa Desjardins begins our
coverage.
LISA DESJARDINS: As a dark
downpour hit outside,
inside, a long-brewing manmade
storm burst.
WOMAN: On the nomination of Neil
M. Gorsuch
of Colorado to be an associate
justice to
the Supreme Court of the United
States.
LISA DESJARDINS: First,
Republicans tried,
and failed, to get the 60 votes
needed to
end a filibuster blocking
Gorsuch.
MAN: The motion is not agreed
to.
LISA DESJARDINS: With that,
Republican Leader
Mitch McConnell launched a
series of historic
parliamentary acrobatics to
remove that 60-vote
requirement altogether.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: I
raise a point of order that the
vote on cloture...
LISA DESJARDINS: Within 90
minutes, Republicans
voted for the so-called nuclear
option, to
reinterpret the rules and change
precedent,
so that a simple majority could
guarantee
a Supreme Court spot.
McConnell insisted Republicans
were in the
right.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: It's
part of a much larger story,
another extreme
escalation in the left's
never-ending drive
to politicize the courts and the
confirmation
process.
LISA DESJARDINS: Republicans
stressed that
former Democratic Leader Harry
Reid opened
the door to this by lowering the
threshold
for all other nominees four
years ago.
Current Democratic Leader Chuck
Schumer argued
the Supreme Court is different.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: The
nuclear option means the end of
a long history
of consensus on Supreme Court
nominations.
It weakens the standing of the
Senate as a
whole as a check on the
president's ability
to shape the judiciary.
LISA DESJARDINS: The shift today
came after
a constellation of conservative
groups spent
millions on ads supporting
Gorsuch.
Opponents ran fewer ads and
instead turned
out calls and e-mails.
California Democrat Dianne
Feinstein said
she received 112,000 calls on
Gorsuch, overwhelmingly
against.
In the end, it exposed a Senate
not just divided,
but bitterly so.
Delaware's Chris Coons:
SEN.
CHRIS COONS (D), Delaware: We
simply do not
trust each other anymore.
And without trust, we will not
rebuild what's
necessary to sustain this body.
Now, everyone likes to point the
finger at
the other side as the source of
this distress.
The reality is, there is
abundant blame to
go around.
LISA DESJARDINS: Even Republican
Johnny Isakson
warned this could lead to
changing the 60-vote
consensus required on most
legislation.
SEN.
JOHNNY ISAKSON (R), Georgia: If
we move towards
a body that's a rubber stamp of
the House
or unicameral government of
legislation, we
will never be the United States
of America
our founding fathers intended us
to be.
LISA DESJARDINS: Democrat Coons
and Republican
Susan Collins are gathering
signatures on
a letter to protect the 60-vote
threshold
for legislation.
As for Judge Gorsuch, the next
vote will be
final confirmation.
That is expected tomorrow
evening.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In other news:
China's President
Xi Jinping arrived in Florida
today for a
high-stakes summit with
President Trump.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
greeted Xi
and his wife.
Mr. Trump arrived later and went
to his Mar-a-Lago
estate, where the meetings will
be held.
North Korea's nuclear weapons
program could
top the agenda.
Mr. Trump said today that he
thinks China
-- quote -- "will want to be
stepping up to
deal with that."
House Intelligence Committee
Chairman Devin
Nunes stepped aside from leading
a probe of
Russian meddling in last year's
election.
He's now facing ethic complaints
of mishandling
classified information.
In a statement, Nunes said: "The
charges are
entirely false and politically
motivated,"
but that he's acting in the best
interests
of the committee.
House Speaker Paul Ryan met with
Nunes last
night, and said today he agrees
with the move.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: I
think Chairman Nunes wants to
make sure that
this is not a distraction to a
very important
investigation.
So, he wants to go clear himself
while this
investigation continues on
without any kinds
of distractions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The committee's
ranking Democrat,
Representative Adam Schiff, had
accused Nunes
of placing his loyalty to
President Trump
before the needs of the
investigation.
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF (D), California: I
just want to
express my appreciation for what
the chairman
decided to do.
I'm sure it was a very difficult
decision
for him.
But, as he mentioned, I think it
is in the
best interests of the
investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Three other
Republicans, Representatives
Mike Conaway, with help from
Trey Gowdy and
Tom Rooney, will now see oversee
the Russia
investigation.
Nunes will remain as chair of
the committee.
Wall Street managed small gains
today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
was up 14
points to close near 20662.
The Nasdaq also rose 14, and the
S&P 500 added
four.
John Glenn, the first American
to orbit the
Earth in space, was laid to rest
today at
Arlington National Cemetery.
His flag-draped casket was
wrapped in plastic
under a steady rain, as it was
carried on
a horse-drawn caisson to the
grave site.
The former Ohio senator died in
December at
the age of 95.
His wife, Annie, now 97, and
family scheduled
the burial on what would have
been the Glenns'
74th wedding anniversary.
And the grandmaster of insult
comedy, Don
Rickles, died today at his Los
Angeles home.
From stand-up stage to late
shows, Rickles
used everything from ethnic
humor to sex jokes
on everyone, from presidents to
fellow entertainers,
including Sammy Davis Jr. in
1975.
DON RICKLES, Comedian: I love
the Italian
people.
I will never forget the words of
Carma Indanganazo
(ph), who said to me in Brooklyn
on a Saturday
night...
(LAUGHTER)
DON RICKLES: No, you're
Catholic, and I'm
a Jew.
And, Sammy, you're black.
I'm sorry.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Don Rickles was
90 years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
I talk with
two senators about the showdown
over Supreme
Court nominee Neil Gorsuch; the
House Intelligence
Committee chair steps away from
the Russia
investigation; the cost of
protecting President
Trump, his family and their
residences; and
much more.
As the fight over Neil Gorsuch
continued to
play out in the U.S. Senate
today, I sat down
with Democrat Patty Murray, the
four-term
senator from Washington State,
who is one
of the majority of Democrats
opposed to Gorsuch
taking that vacant seat on the
Supreme Court.
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY (D), Washington:
What concerns
me at the end of the day is a
lifetime appointment
on the Supreme Court, someone's
judgment and
their beliefs in terms of
protecting people's
rights in this country is
extremely important.
And, for me, he didn't pass the
test.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You made a
particular point
of speaking about his position
on reproductive
rights.
Why is that so important to you?
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY: This Supreme Court
will consider
cases coming to it that
ultimately could overturn
Roe v. Wade, which would mean
that women would
-- could possibly lose their
constitutionally
protected right to make their
own health care
choices.
To me, that is an issue I have
seen in my
own lifetime that has made a
real impact for
women, personally, their health
and their
economy.
And I do not want this country
to go backwards.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you have
spoken before
about your own awareness in your
personal
life.
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY: When I was in
college, Roe v.
Wade wasn't the law of the land
many years
ago.
And I remember as good today as
I did then
a friend of mine, very close to,
lived with
her in the dorm, who went out on
a date, like
many young women did, and was
what we today
call date-raped, but we didn't
have a term
for it then, ended up getting
pregnant.
There was no place she could go,
nobody -- no
protections of law, ended up
finding what
we would now call a back-alley
doctor who
performed an abortion.
And as a result of a botched
procedure, she,
at a very young age, lost her
ability to ever
have a family.
I don't want to go back to that.
We now have a time when women
can get the
health care they need when they
need it for
whatever reason, and they have
the protection
of law to do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: These are
terrible individual
situations, and you have just
described one
of them.
At the same time, you know that
there are
many Americans who feel strongly
in the other
way.
I think the latest Pew poll
showed 37 percent
of Americans don't believe in
abortion under
almost any circumstances.
How do you respect their point
of view?
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY: Well, I do respect
that.
For a deeply religious purpose,
there are
people who do not personally
believe that
abortion is acceptable.
I understand that.
But this is a country where we
don't impose
religious beliefs on the entire
country.
This is a country where we
accept differences
of opinion.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're not only
opposing Judge
Gorsuch.
You and other Democrats are
mounting a filibuster
to do all you can do to prevent
a vote.
That, as you know, could lead to
a significant
change in the rules in the
Senate, which will
have an even more long-lasting
effect.
Why go that extra step?
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY: Well, this is not
our choice.
This is the Republicans' choice.
Normally, our Supreme Court
justices do get
over 60 votes.
And that's important in this
country.
If you don't get 60 votes, it
means that you're
not a justice that can really be
a justice
for the entire land.
So, it's an important hurdle.
There are not 60 people in the
Senate today
who believe that we should have
this nomination.
And I can't vote just because
Mitch wants
me to.
I -- that's -- my vote is really
important
to me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There is the
argument, Senator,
at the same time, even made by
other Democrats,
who are saying, Democrats
shouldn't push this
to the wall on this vote, the
argument being
the Democrats should wait to cut
a deal of
some sort of with the Republican
leadership
to say, we are going to go along
with this
one, but the next time, we are
going to preserve
the rule as it is now.
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY: That's a nice
conversation,
but I think Mitch McConnell
showed his cards
over a year ago.
I think he sent a very strong
signal then
that his goal was to put someone
on the Supreme
Court that he felt was much more
conservative.
So, I don't expect that, if
somehow a deal
could be made where Democrats
could get over
their feeling that this wasn't
the right person
and give a yes vote, that, in
the next instance,
that he wouldn't change the
rules anyway.
So, you stand up for your
principles here.
And that's what we're standing
up for.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We're learning
this morning
that the chairman of the House
Select Committee
on Intelligence stepping aside
from his role
running the investigation into
Russian interference
in the U.S. election last year.
What does that say to you?
Does that now give you
confidence that this
investigation will be conducted
fairly on
the part of the Congress?
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY: Well, I think it's
a very important
step in the right direction,
from what I know
at this point, because this is a
very important
topic in this country today.
If we have a foreign country,
which it appears
that we do, interfering in an
election in
any way, we need to know that,
and we need
to do everything we can to make
sure that
never happens again.
If the bigger questions of
collusion or whatever
from this administration are
true, this country
needs to know it and action
needs to be taken.
It has to be done in a
bipartisan way for
it to be credible in this
country.
And Nunes was standing in the
way of that
because of his actions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, finally, you
have worked
really closely with Speaker Ryan
in the past
on a number of difficult
legislative issues.
How do you think he's doing
right now?
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY: I think he has an
incredibly
difficult job.
I don't envy him his job.
But my advice to him would be,
do what you
have done in the past that helps
you be successful.
Reach out and find Democrats and
find bipartisan
solutions to the challenges that
you have,
and that's how you can get
things done.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Patty
Murray, thank
you very much.
SEN.
PATTY MURRAY: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now, for an
opposing view
on the confirmation of Neil
Gorsuch, I spoke
with Republican Senator John
Thune of South
Dakota, who defended his party's
move to change
the Senate rules.
SEN.
JOHN THUNE (R), South Dakota:
Well, we just
weren't left with any choices,
Judy.
The Senate Democrats decided to
filibuster
this nominee, something that
hasn't been successfully
done in the 230-year history of
Senate, at
least successfully done by one
party.
They had the votes to block him.
The only way we were going to be
able to get
an up-and-down vote on him,
which is the history,
the tradition of the Senate, was
to make the
rules change that enabled us to
get to that
up-and-down vote, which will
occur sometime
tomorrow.
But had that not happened, we
wouldn't get
this vote, and I'm not sure we
could get any
vote.
If we can't get Neil Gorsuch
across the finish
line, I don't know what Supreme
Court nominee
the Democrats would be willing
to vote on
in the next four years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, as I'm sure
you know,
the Democrats are saying that
he's not a mainstream
candidate.
And they say that what's really
unprecedented
was the treatment Republicans
gave last year
to President Obama's Supreme
Court nominee,
Merrick Garland.
So, they're saying that what
they are doing
is no worse than what
Republicans did last
year.
SEN.
JOHN THUNE: Well, Garland of
course, you know,
that issue got litigated during
the campaign.
Our argument was people were
already voting
last year.
It was a presidential year.
And we ought to let people weigh
in, have
their voices heard, and let the
new president
pick the next Supreme Court
nominee, which
happened.
And I think, in terms of him
being mainstream,
it's pretty hard to argue that
he's not mainstream,
if you look at his time on the
10th Circuit.
He's been a part of 2,700 cases
that were
heard there; 99 percent of those
times, he
was in the majority; 97 percent
of the time,
the vote was unanimous.
And so the Democrats were
hard-pressed to
come up with an argument to make
against him.
And I realize part of it goes
back to Garland,
but I think, at the end of the
day, we have
got to move forward, not
backward.
And we have got a vacancy to
fill.
We just felt like this judge
deserved an up-and-down
vote.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Senate has
not been seen,
as you know, as partisan a body
as the House
of Representatives up until now.
Do you think that has changed?
Is that changing going forward?
SEN.
JOHN THUNE: I'll tell you, my
view on that
is that you're right.
And a lot of people are sort of
assessing,
what's the impact on the Senate?
I think, by and large, this was
sort of baked
in.
The Democrats changed the rules
back in 2013
on lower court and appellate
court nominees.
And they basically had signaled
last fall
during the presidential campaign
that, if
they won, if Hillary Clinton had
been elected
president, and they had gotten
the majority
in the Senate, that they were
going to change
the rules on the Supreme Court.
So I think, for the most part,
people on both
sides realized this was likely
to happen.
And I think now it's a question
of getting
this behind us and moving
forward on a legislative
agenda, where I do think we can
find hopefully
some bipartisan cooperation,
because I think,
more than anything else, the
American people
want to -- they want to see us
get results.
And that's what we intend to do.
And it's going to take
cooperation on both
sides in order for that to
happen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you don't
think that after
this it's going to be harder to
work with
Democrats to move forward in the
Senate?
SEN.
JOHN THUNE: It's not my sense.
I think the Democrats did what
they had to
do because, obviously, there's a
lot of -- their
activists, their political base
was very energized
on this issue.
But I talk with Democrats all
the time, I
work with Democrats all the time
on legislation.
And, like I said, I think, for
the most part,
the assumption has been all
along that, irrespective
of who won that presidential
election last
fall, this is where we were
going to end up,
and particularly given the fact
that, in 2013,
they had initiated the first
stage of this
by doing away with the 50 -- or
the 60-vote
threshold with respect to lower
court and
appellate court nods.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, Senator,
there's another
story we have been following
today.
And that is the chemical weapons
attack in
Syria the Trump administration
is laying at
the feet of the Assad regime.
We now have President Trump
suggesting that
perhaps there needs to be some
sort of action
taken.
We are told the Pentagon is
going to be briefing
the president on possible
military moves that
could be made.
Are Republicans in the Congress
prepared to
get more deeply involved
militarily in Syria,
if it comes to that?
SEN.
JOHN THUNE: I think there's
pretty strong
sentiment on both sides of the
aisle up here
that this warrants a response.
You know, Assad has denied it.
And, of course, the Russians
have denied it,
but it's clear the intelligence
that he is
responsible for this attack.
And the use of weapons of mass
destruction,
of chemical weapons on your own
children is
just something that's a horrific
act.
And I think that the
international community,
I hope, responds aggressively.
And I believe that the United
States will
be looked to for leadership in
terms of that
response.
And I'm not -- I don't think we
ought to take
any options off the table.
But I think this warrants a
clear message
from the international community
and the United
States that this kind of
behavior is just
not acceptable.
And, ultimately, I believe he
still -- he
has to go, but I think they're
looking at
their options, and we will see
what they ultimately
decide to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it
certainly does sound
like they're considering
military steps.
SEN.
JOHN THUNE: Well, if they did, I
suspect it
would be something that would be
a limited
strike designed probably to
ground the air
force, the Syrian air force, to
take out some
airstrips and that sort of
thing.
And a lot of that could be done,
I suppose,
with cruise missiles.
I'm not exactly sure what all is
in the discussion.
I don't want to speculate about
that.
But I do think there are ways
that we can
respond and that we can limit
Assad's ability
to do these sorts of things to
his own people
in the future.
And I think there is a
humanitarian reason
to respond that's just pretty
compelling,
in light of some of these images
that we have
seen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator John
Thune, we thank
you very much for talking with
us.
SEN.
JOHN THUNE: Thanks, Judy.
Nice to be with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We turn now to
the shakeup
in the investigation into
Russian interference
in the 2016 presidential
election.
For more on what led House
Intelligence Committee
Chairman Devin Nunes to step
aside, we're
joined by Robert Costa, national
political
reporter for The Washington
Post.
Robert, thank you very much.
The last we heard, Devin Nunes
wasn't going
to recuse himself.
You talked to him today.
What changed?
ROBERT COSTA, The Washington
Post: I spoke
with the chairman by phone.
And he does remain the chairman.
He told me he wants to keep that
gavel.
But he will step away from the
investigation
into Russia.
There is an ethics complaint
about him that's
rising inside of the House.
And this has caused some
problems for him
as chairman about how he has
handled classified
information.
And so he's going to hand off
the reins to
some other Republicans on the
committee and
let the Senate Intelligence
Committee do its
work as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, what is that
Ethics Committee
-- what is the nub of their
concern?
Do we know?
ROBERT COSTA: The focus of it is
on how Chairman
Nunes went to the White House,
associated
himself with different
intelligence officials
and White House employees, as he
looked into
not only Russian interference,
but the Obama
administration's activities and
efforts on
the Russian issue during last
year's election.
And how he proceeded in dealing
with the White
House in terms of having a quiet
meeting there
with certain officials has
raised some eyebrows
on Capitol Hill and it's caused
him some problems
in terms of other members
raising questions
about his ethics.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you are
referring to other
Republican members; is that
right?
ROBERT COSTA: Democrats are
raising concerns,
and so are Republicans.
Republicans, in general, Judy,
are skittish
about Nunes.
And they believe that the
Russian matter is
not a political winner, and that
the way Nunes
has handled it has left a lot of
Republicans
vulnerable to mounting questions
as they head
home to recess.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just quickly,
Robert, what
do we know about Representative
Conaway, Mike
Conaway, of Texas, who is going
to be stepping
in to overseeing the Russia
investigation?
ROBERT COSTA: He has looked into
the Russian
matter before.
He has worked closely with
Nunes, so you have
a Nunes ally.
But Democrat Adam Schiff of
California, who
is the ranking member on the
Intelligence
Committee, there is still
concern on the Democratic
side about the integrity of this
committee
moving forward.
Even with Nunes gone, he's still
chairman.
He's still influencing Conaway
and others
on the committee.
Can it be independent?
Can it be judicious?
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, separately,
Robert, I want
to ask you about what you're
learning about
any -- whether there's been any
progress on
the part of Republicans in
trying to resurrect
a bill, legislation to overturn
and replace
Obamacare?
ROBERT COSTA: As a reporter, I
would refer
to it as incremental progress,
if anything.
You had Speaker Paul Ryan head
to the White
House on Thursday night.
He met with Chief of Staff
Reince Priebus
and Vice President Pence.
And they talked through the
president's demand
to congressional leaders to do
something on
health care.
Yes, it fell apart, but the
message from the
president to this group of the
speaker and
top White House officials was,
do something.
And so they're looking into
high-risk insurance
pools, about reforming that
aspect of the
Affordable Care Act, moving --
trying to save
some costs, at least from the
Republican view,
as they look for different
little tweaks that
could get some kind of GOP
consensus.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're
saying, as they
go into recess, they will
continue to work
on that?
ROBERT COSTA: It's about talking
about working
on it, more than anything.
This was only a Rules Committee
hearing on
Friday that looked into making
these kinds
of changes in terms of how
insurance is structured
with pooling.
But there is no legislation
that's headed
to the floor soon.
Why not?
The answer is simple.
There are just not the votes
there yet among
House Republicans to get much of
anything
through on health care.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Robert
Costa reporting
from The Washington Post, thank
you, Robert.
ROBERT COSTA: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
financial
regulations President Trump
could roll back;
singer Valerie June explains her
unique voice;
and a Brief But Spectacular take
on the power
of a photograph.
But first: President Trump's
summit with China's
president at his Florida resort
is the president's
sixth trip to Mar-a-Lago since
taking office.
But some are asking about the
stresses and
strains being placed on the
Secret Service
to protect him and his family at
their multiple
homes.
John Yang has the story.
JOHN YANG: In the more than a
century that
the U.S. Secret Service has
protected presidents
and their families, rarely has
it had so many
places and so many people to
guard than under
President Trump, not just the
White House,
but also Trump Tower in the
heart of Manhattan,
still home for first lady
Melania Trump and
their son, Barron, although the
president
has not been there since taking
office.
And Mr. Trump has requested
protection for
his adult children and their
spouses, White
House advisers Ivanka Trump and
Jared Kushner,
and the president's eldest sons,
Donald Jr.
and Eric, who travel the world
on family business.
Evy Poumpouras is a former
Secret Service
agent who helped protect four
presidents.
EVY POUMPOURAS, Former U.S.
Secret Service
Agent: One of the things here
that is a concern,
you have got three sites, three
static sites.
Before, with prior presidents,
you really
just had to worry about the
White House itself.
But with these three different
sites, you're
almost having to recreate a
permanent protection
residence.
You're going to have to double
your resources.
your efforts.
You're going to have to double
your manpower.
JOHN YANG: While the Secret
Service rarely
details the cost of protecting
presidents
and their families, media
reports and past
government estimates provide
some clues.
A single weekend trip to
Mar-a-Lago costs
taxpayers an estimated $3
million.
The Washington Post, citing
internal documents,
said the Secret Service is
requesting an additional
$60 million for next year,
nearly $27 million
to secure Trump Tower.
SEN.
CLAIRE MCCASKILL (D), Missouri:
I'm deeply
concerned that the Secret
Service is being
stretched to its breaking point.
JOHN YANG: Senator Claire
McCaskill, who is
the top Democrat on the Senate
Homeland Security
Committee.
SEN.
CLAIRE MCCASKILL: I'm concerned
about the
Secret Service and the
unprecedented challenge
of protecting the president and
his family
at numerous locations, the White
House, Trump
Tower and Mar-a-Lago, as well as
the international
travel by the president's sons.
JOHN YANG: White House Press
Secretary Sean
Spicer defends President Trump's
trips.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
President Bush traveled to
Crawford.
President Obama went to Hawaii
often.
This is not something that you
can control.
There is a security aspect that
the Secret
Service determines when the
president and
the family travels.
That's not dictated by the
president of the
United States.
JOHN YANG: Evy Poumpouras says
there simply
aren't enough agents.
EVY POUMPOURAS: To help with
this demand in
manpower, you tend to go outside
of the normal
presidential protective detail.
Then you pull in agents from
across the country.
You are, though, in fact,
pulling them away
from other duties.
JOHN YANG: In Florida, local law
enforcement
is feeling the strain,
especially when Mr.
Trump meets foreign leaders like
the Chinese
president at Mar-a-Lago.
Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric
Bradshaw:
RIC BRADSHAW, Palm Beach County
Sheriff: If
we were just doing the president
up at Mar-a-Lago,
it's around $60,000 to $70,000 a
day.
You can double that right now.
And that's not including all the
other security
measures that we're taking with
fencing and
some barriers and stuff like
that.
That's an additional cost.
JOHN YANG: Costs that the county
would like
the federal government to help
pay.
For more on what it costs to
protect the president
and how this commander in chief
compares to
his predecessors, I am joined by
Ken Vogel,
the chief investigative reporter
for Politico,
and presidential historian
Michael Beschloss.
Gentlemen, thanks to you both.
Ken, let me start with you.
We heard in the spot the former
Secret Service
agent talking about the
challenges in terms
of manpower and planning or
protecting three
residences, essentially.
What are some of the other
challenges the
Secret Service has to deal with
in not just
the White House, but Trump Tower
and Mar-a-Lago?
KEN VOGEL, Politico: Well, Trump
Tower, obviously,
in the middle of Manhattan, one
of the most
densely populated areas in the
country, a
lot of challenges around there
related to
not just the president's own
security, but
interfacing with the community
writ large.
They stop traffic fairly
regularly outside
Trump Tower.
But Mar-a-Lago is the big one.
When I talk to law enforcement
and Secret
Service sources, they repeatedly
raise the
myriad of concerns that stem
from having a
private membership club where
members continue
to come in and out and interface
with the
president, including during some
of these
incredibly sensitive sort of
forums where
you have foreign leaders coming
in.
We saw the example with the
Japanese prime
minister and the North Korean
sort of mini-crisis
there, where they were handling
it in the
middle of sort of an outdoor
porch-type setting,
because these people took
pictures of it and
tweeted them.
It was jokingly referred to as
an open-air
Situation Room.
So you had people who are coming
and going
there.
You don't have the normal types
of background
checks that are required to get
into a sort
of closed space where you would
potentially
rub shoulders with the president
at Mar-a-Lago.
And then, additionally, you
have, you know,
the risk of people that you
charity functions there where
you have people
who are not even members who are
coming in
and potentially sitting down at
a table right
next to the president to eat
from the same
buffet that the president is
eating from.
I mean, that's really unheard
of.
And that creates a lot of
potential risks
that the Secret Service cringes
at.
And they have to work with the
local police,
as well as the private security
at Mar-a-Lago.
And it's just an unprecedented
situation that
adds a number of layers of risk
that you don't
typically see.
JOHN YANG: Michael, help us put
this into
context.
How does this compare to other
presidents?
You have had -- President Nixon
had homes
in California and in Florida.
Presidents Bush and Johnson had
ranches in
Texas.
How does this compare?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS, Presidential
Historian:
Well, none of them had a private
club of the
kind that Ken described with the
open-air
Situation Room.
But, you know, you did have, for
instance,
John Kennedy went to Palm Beach
to his parents'
house or another house in Palm
Beach every
weekend, went up to Hyannis
Port, too.
And public has generally had the
feeling it's
important to protect the
president, important
to protect his family,
especially against
kidnapping or blackmail.
And so, therefore, people
generally feel that
you have to spend whatever is
necessary, especially
in a time of terrorism.
But the time that there was the
beginning
of the backlash was 1973,
Richard Nixon and
Watergate.
There were revelations that
Nixon had had
the government pay for
improvements to his
house in California, San
Clemente, his swimming
pool, allegedly for security
reasons.
And, actually, that really hurt
him, because
a lot of persons who didn't
understand the
fine points of obstruction of
justice, they
certainly understood using
government money
to improve your pool.
So, ever since then, there has
been a lot
of sensitivity.
JOHN YANG: But also, with
President Trump,
he has grown children who have
business interests
around the world, and they're
traveling for
those business interests.
How does that compare?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: That's the
problem.
And there is a view, you can
even hear it
on talk radio these days, of
these sons who
are going around the world
swaggering with
their big Secret Service detail,
making a
lot of money.
The problem with that is, is,
God forbid,
you know, let's not talk about
them.
Let's say if you had a
presidential family
member who was kidnapped for
ransom, making
demands of a president to do
certain things
to get his child out.
That's a situation you never
want.
And that's why we probably want
presidential
families protected pretty
closely.
JOHN YANG: Ken, what about the
staff?
There are a number of staff
members who have
been assigned details -- or
requested details
by the president, Reince
Priebus, Kellyanne
Conway, people like that.
KEN VOGEL: Yes, that's right.
And while there are those
decisions about
whether to grant the protection
are driven
by very legitimate security
concerns and a
very careful assessment of the
necessity of
this, nonetheless, there is a
sense, particularly
in Washington, where we're
extremely status-conscious,
that this is something, a detail
is sort of
the ultimate status symbol.
And so you have jealousy and
resentment among
other White House staffers, some
very recognizable
folks in their own right, who do
not have
the Secret Service protection.
We saw Sean Spicer, the White
House press
secretary, at an Apple store
accosted by a
woman who filmed herself kind of
asking antagonistic
questions of Sean Spicer.
Well, does that warrant Secret
Service protection?
Spicer evidently didn't think
so.
He hasn't requested it.
There's no indication that he
would have it.
So, why do some of these other
folks have
it?
I tend to agree with Michael
that, in situations
like this, the protection of
having, ensuring
the safety of both the
president, his family,
in some cases key staffers who
face threats,
are the most important things.
But, per the Secret Service
agent who you
talked to, the former agent in
the intro piece,
there are concerns about
spreading the Service
too then.
There's only so many people who
can have protection,
and the protection would stay at
that consistently
excellent level, professional
level that the
Secret Service is known for.
JOHN YANG: And, of course,
Secret Service
asking for more money.
Michael Beschloss, Ken Vogel,
thanks very
much for joining us.
KEN VOGEL: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now a
conversation with outgoing
Federal Reserve Board Governor
Daniel Tarullo.
As Republicans set their sights
on major changes
to Obama era financial reforms,
our economics
correspondent, Paul Solman, sat
down with
the Fed's point person on bank
regulation,
who played a major role in
putting them in
place.
It's part of our series Making
Sense, which
airs every Thursday.
PAUL SOLMAN: Federal Reserve
Governor Daniel
Tarullo has been called one of
the most powerful
U.S. banking regulators since
Alexander Hamilton.
Appointed by President Obama in
2009, Tarullo
was central to the
implementation of the 2010
Dodd-frank Act, which imposed
tougher regulations
on banks in the wake of the
financial crisis.
Under his watch, the Fed has
sought to curb
banks' reliance on short-term
loans and to
increase the amount of capital
they must keep
on hand.
But President Trump is expected
to try to
scale back much of what was put
in place.
On our visit to the Fed last
week, Tarullo's
wasn't the only empty office we
found.
Since Senate Republicans refused
to vote on
two of President Obama's
nominees, there are
now three openings on the
seven-member board
of governors.
That means President Trump will
have a chance
to put his mark on Fed policy
going forward.
Daniel Tarullo, welcome to the
program.
DANIEL TARULLO, Federal Reserve
Governor:
Good to be with you.
PAUL SOLMAN: Your appointment's
through 2022,
right, so why are you leaving
now?
DANIEL TARULLO: Well, you know,
eight years
is a long time.
I came here, along with other
people, with
a sense of the need to rebuild
the financial
regulatory system.
I think we have made a lot of
progress towards
that end.
And I think there comes a time
where everybody
individually wants to do
something else, and
where it's time to let other
people try their
hand at the job you have been
occupying.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, in this case,
try their
hand at dismantling what you in
particular
have been doing.
DANIEL TARULLO: Well, I don't
really expect
that there's going to be a
dismantling of
some of the major
accomplishments that we
have had.
And I certainly hope not.
And I don't think it would be
something the
American people would want to
see, Democrats
or Republicans, particularly
with respect
to the additional requirements
that we and
the other banking agencies have
placed on
the largest, most systemically
important financial
institutions, those that almost
failed during
the crisis.
I think there's a broad-based
view that stronger
capital requirements and better
oversight
is something that's needed there
indefinitely.
PAUL SOLMAN: But the criticism
has been that
you so regulated the system that
banks and
other financial institutions are
not lending
as they would have lent in the
past, and that
that's made the economy a lot
less vibrant
than it would otherwise have
been and could
have been.
DANIEL TARULLO: Sure, we could
go back to
a time in 2004, '5 and '6 when
there was lending
against no collateral, no down
payments for
houses.
Sure, that is a lot more
lending, and, in
the short term, it feels good,
but it's not
sustainable lending.
It's not sound lending.
And, of course, we saw the
results.
So, I think you both find today
that they're
-- the problem that banks see is
not that
they have too little capital in
order to be
able to make loans.
The problem they see is still
not enough demand
to make more loans.
PAUL SOLMAN: Were you afraid, as
you put all
these regulations in place, that
there was
going to be another crash if you
didn't?
DANIEL TARULLO: I don't expect
that in the
near-term, because, of course,
everyone is
still adjusting and making their
balance sheets
sounder and more healthy in the
wake of the
crisis.
PAUL SOLMAN: They're still
remembering the
crisis.
DANIEL TARULLO: Yes.
But you do see memories start to
fade.
And I do worry that even now,
about a year
or two or three from now, it
will be too easy
for people to forget the
situation that some
of our biggest banks were in,
where they needed
taxpayer funds in the fall of
2008 in order
to stay solvent, and then
retreat from the
fairly rigorous set of
regulations we have
put in place.
Now, look, some things will need
to be changed,
reconciled with each other, and
certainly
with respect to the smaller
banks, we will
want to ramp back on some of the
regulation.
They have been kind of caught in
the snares
that were set for the banks that
do involve
the integration of capital
markets and traditional
lending.
PAUL SOLMAN: What would you
change about the
regulation of the financial
system now that
you might even have been
instrumental in implementing
when you first came in?
DANIEL TARULLO: Sure.
I think we do need it to be
somewhat simpler
than it is now.
One very good example is that of
the Volcker
rule.
We're sitting here in the shadow
of former
Chairman Volcker's portrait.
He proposed a very
straightforward idea.
PAUL SOLMAN: The idea: bar
commercial banks
from making certain risky
investments with
their own funds, so-called
proprietary trading.
But Tarullo thinks the rule is
simply too
complicated to apply.
DANIEL TARULLO: First off,
Dodd-Frank had
five different federal agencies
involved in
implementing the rule.
And so we really had four or
five different
Volcker rules, rather than just
one.
And, secondly, the way that we
tried to implement
it, by trying to discern the
intentions of
the traders, do they mean to be
engaged in
proprietary trading, I think has
just shown
itself not to be feasible.
We, the agencies, could go back
and try to
find simpler ways to enforce the
Volcker rule.
And perhaps someday Congress
would reconsider
some of these rule-makings that
have three
or four or five or six agencies
having to
do everything simultaneously.
PAUL SOLMAN: What do you expect
to happen
now that there are three
vacancies on the
Board of Governors, which
President Trump
will have the opportunity to
appoint, and
presumably can redirect, or have
a substantial
influence on redirecting the
Fed, and if he
were to not reappoint Chair
Yellen, even more
of an impact?
DANIEL TARULLO: Well, I don't
think I want
to speculate about what
appointments the president
may make.
I think we have got a good
tradition in this
country of people being
appointed to the Fed
who take their job seriously and
who try to
work with one another, even when
they have
different views.
And my hope and expectation
would be that
that's what would continue on
into the future.
PAUL SOLMAN: Are you not worried
about the
pendulum swinging too far in the
other direction
towards deregulation once again?
DANIEL TARULLO: I am concerned
about that.
There is certainly the potential
for making
some changes to regulations,
particularly
as they affect smaller banks,
which I think
would be just fine.
I do have concerns that, with
respect to the
largest, most systemic
institutions, people
not forget the reason why we put
these higher
capital requirements in place in
the first
instance.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, then why didn't
you stay
and fight the good fight?
DANIEL TARULLO: You can do the
job you do.
You try to put something in
place.
And then one moves on.
And I don't think anybody can
ever tell themselves
that they are the most important
cog in a
particular position.
It's just not the case.
PAUL SOLMAN: Daniel Tarullo,
thank you very
much.
DANIEL TARULLO: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now the
latest in our ongoing
series of conversations with
musicians called
My Music.
Tonight, we hear from Valerie
June.
She's a singer/songwriter from
Memphis, Tennessee,
who says inspiration comes to
her in all forms
and at all times of the day.
The "NewsHour" caught up with
June at her
recent show at Washington,
D.C.'s Sixth & I
Synagogue.
VALERIE JUNE, Singer/Songwriter:
I always
loved my voice.
And I always loved singing.
But I did know that my voice was
different.
That didn't stop me from singing
at the top
of my lungs around the house,
and really,
really having fun with songs.
I'm Valerie June.
And I'm an American
singer/songwriter and
multi-instrumentalist.
Voices are beautiful things,
because voices
change.
And I just think that is so
beautiful how
voices age, how they make it
through a day,
how it's -- your sleepy
nighttime voice is
different from your sleepy
morning voice.
(LAUGHTER)
VALERIE JUNE: These songs just
come while
I'm cleaning the house or
walking through
the grocery store, or while I'm
doing other
things.
When the songs come, I can't
tell them what
to do.
They are what they are.
And
that's what I'm here to do, to
work in the
spirit way with music, more than
anything
else, how can the spirit open,
and where -- where
does the spirit lie in the
songs?
Sometimes, it just wants to
dance.
Other times, it wants to go
inside of itself
in pure, raw emotion.
Maybe it's lost, like I lost my
father.
Or maybe it's like love.
Or maybe it's like complete and
total, just
a happy moment.
Or maybe it's like complete and
total, just
a happy moment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, another
in our Brief
But Spectacular series, where we
ask people
to describe their passions.
Tonight, we here from the
photographer Platon,
who has taken photographs or
portraits of
many world leaders and
well-known figures.
His latest book is called
"Service," and he
runs a nonprofit foundation, The
People's
Portfolio.
PLATON, Photographer: A
portrait, to me, is
about closeness, it's about
truth.
Sometimes, someone's fame, power
and success
actually becomes a prison, and
the person
knows better than anybody that
they can't
live up to that ideal.
My job is not to be
disrespectful, but to
be authentic, to say, who are
you really?
The first American president I
ever came into
contact with was Bill Clinton.
The magazine said, we want a
nice dignified
head shot.
I thought to myself, look, I'm
never going
to be in front of another
president ever again
anyway, so I might as well do
the picture
that I was born to do.
I shouted out, "Mr. President,
will you show
me the love?"
And there was silence in the
room.
I think his chief of staff
leaned forward
and said, "Mr. President,
whatever you do,
do not show him the love."
But Clinton then says: "Shut up.
Shut up.
I know what he means."
He puts his hands on his knees,
and gives
me that Clinton charisma.
It became an icon of
controversy, dubbing
it as the crotch shot, that it's
all about
sex, that the tie is actually an
arrow, that
the face is smiling, saying, I
got away with
the biggest sex scandal ever.
It wasn't about any of those
things.
It was about charisma.
He's a rock 'n' roll president.
I was led into Mark Zuckerberg's
office where
we were going to do the picture.
His neck was tense.
His eyes were wide open, and he
almost resisted
every opportunity I made to
connect with him.
And then I said to him, you
know, you have
succeeded more than any other
person I have
ever met on the planet, but you
must have
failed along the way.
And when you fail, how do you
cope with failure?
He looked at me, and he said:
"There is no
failure.
I just love what I do."
And so, I said, "Show me," and
everything
changed.
It's extraordinary what a simple
question
can do that connects with his
value system.
With Putin, I think that was the
first moment
I ever had to deal with this
sense of intimidation.
He walks in with this giant
entourage that
makes P. Diddy look like Mickey
Mouse.
I nervously said: "Mr.
President, it's a great
honor to be in your fine
country.
I have a question for you.
Before we take the picture, I
want you to
know that I'm an Englishman, and
I love the
Beatles.
And I would like to know if you
like the Beatles."
He says, "I love the Beatles."
I said, "Oh, my God, I didn't
know you spoke
English."
He said, "I speak perfect
I said, "Well, who's your
favorite Beatle?"
And he said, "Paul."
"Wow.
What's your favorite song.
Is it 'Back in the USSR'?"
He said, "No, it's 'Yesterday.'
Think about it."
I ended up an inch-and-a-half
away from his
nose.
And that's how I got the truth.
This is the cold face of power
in Russia.
I worked with Donald Trump quite
a while ago,
but even back then, there was
this chaos and
madness that surrounded him.
I remember saying to him:
"Donald, how do
you weather the storm?
It's madness around you wherever
you go, whatever
you do, whatever you say.
There's this sort of frenetic
energy."
Suddenly, this quiet calm came
over him, and
he said, "I am the storm."
All this sort of frenetic, crazy
energy and
sense of chaos is very easy for
Donald to
navigate through that, because
he created
it.
And it's actually us that can't
cope with
it.
My name is Platon, and this is
my Brief But
Spectacular take on speaking
truth to power.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wow.
And you can find additional
Brief But Spectacular
episodes on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
One hundred years ago today, the
United States
entered World War I by declaring
war on Germany.
Starting Monday on PBS,
"American Experience"
presents a three-night series
about the war
that claimed more than 100,000
American lives,
a fraction of the 1.5 million of
lives lost
across the globe.
"The Great War" explores the
experiences of
African-American and Latino
soldiers, the
crackdown on suspected German
supporters in
the U.S., the reluctance of
President Wilson
to join the war effort, and how
it led to
transforming the United States
into a dominant
player on the world stage.
WOMAN: World War I showed
Americans the best
and worst that the country is
capable of.
MAN: We're still ironing out
everything that
war unleashed.
MAN: This was a period of deep
paranoia.
WOMAN: You became a public enemy
if you refused
to support the war.
MAN: It's probably the greatest
suppression
of free speech the country has
ever seen.
MAN: For Wilson, it's
embarrassing that these
protests were happening.
WOMAN: These are women who are
resilient,
who will not give up.
They're the radical voice.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I said 1.5
million lives lost.
Actually, 15 million lives lost
around the
world.
And "The Great War" begins
Monday night on
most PBS stations.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: We visit
a Baltimore artist's home which
is more a
museum than a residence, crammed
with a collection
of thousands of works of what's
known as outsider
art.
That and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Friday: Just in time for
Passover, a new
book by Joan Nathan explores
Jewish cooking
from around the world.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening with Mark Shields and
David Brooks.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.
END